Richelle Direny: I wonder for a second. I said that Eric kind of firm and then he's gonna stand me up.
Erik Long: Yeah, I was in, I was with the care navigator for a bit because last night I missed group with you guys because I just completely mind blowing.
Erik Long: Because I forgot that it was Tuesday.
Erik Long: You know, like with this coronavirus you just lose track of what day of the week. It is
Richelle Direny: Yeah, when you're locked in.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, yeah. I mean, so you could have come to group today.
Richelle Direny: Because I'm reading this and has a group on Wednesdays at 12
Erik Long: Crap. Do you know any other days that does she have any more groups this week.
Richelle Direny: On. Not that I know.
Richelle Direny: She has groups on Tuesdays throughout the day.
Erik Long: Yeah, normally go door Tuesday at 8pm
Richelle Direny: Yeah, but she has said earlier in the day as well.
Erik Long: But the problem is, you know, if she has one on Mondays.
Richelle Direny: I don't believe so. I think she sees if I think she does for individuals on Mondays.
Erik Long: Because what I was talking to the care navigators is like I have enough of my Suboxone to get me to Monday, but like my first dose on Monday morning, and then I'm out.
Richelle Direny: So what I could do is
Richelle Direny: I can send her a message to let her know that we've met. And so to see you shaking
Erik Long: Yeah, I'd appreciate that.
Erik Long: Not moment.
Erik Long: Yeah, since I'm like a newer like this is I've only been with you guys like a month I'm selling like a week to week basis with getting prescriptions, I guess.
Richelle Direny: I just sent it to her. So let's just see
Richelle Direny: So, um,
Richelle Direny: What we can do it was so today's session is just arm on just the intake which is me just getting to know you. She Oh she's
Richelle Direny: Is responding so I see what
Richelle Direny: She says she'll send a bridge.
Richelle Direny: To send
Me.
Erik Long: What's a bridge.
Richelle Direny: I guess enough to hold you till next week.
Erik Long: Okay, perfect.
Erik Long: Thank you.
Richelle Direny: So, um, yeah. Yeah, that's what that means. So you don't have enough to group next
Richelle Direny: You'll have enough to group next Tuesday.
Erik Long: Perfect.
Richelle Direny: So I'm see what communication does just let me know. We try to make it happen.
Richelle Direny: So,
Richelle Direny: Like I said, we're just doing kind of getting to know you know not really necessarily going over the program rules because you're well aware of that you've been coming to the group that means, and we've been going over that.
Richelle Direny: So today, it's just really just a lot of it is just going over you know how you got started, you know, on this journey.
Richelle Direny: So, and after that we will determine I know bright heart.
Richelle Direny: The program rules are that you
Richelle Direny: Can then the program rules are that you attend group twice a month that banker.
Richelle Direny: Individuals twice a month.
Richelle Direny: But of course that the discretion of the therapist, especially if you're seeing a therapist, the community, um, then it can be altered a little bit
Richelle Direny: For the end we'll talk about that and what my recommendation or but um so my question is, and how did you hear about her.
Erik Long: Um, I was actually just
Erik Long: I just looked up online.
Erik Long: Like, because I had been on Suboxone in the past. And that was how I got my longest period of clean time from opiates in the past.
Erik Long: So I looked up because I was down in Florida for a while and going to like impatient treatments and stuff.
Erik Long: But then at one point I was on Suboxone in Florida for a year, I was sober. Then they took me off of it all of a sudden, and then I relapsed but then I moved back up to Ohio with my family. So I looked up.
Erik Long: Places, or like online the visa was right when the coronavirus so starting and I looked up like online medical institutions that can provide Suboxone therapy.
Erik Long: And then you guys popped up.
Richelle Direny: I think this must be popular, I have to say because I hear a lot of people say it's just they just look up online Suboxone programs and we
Erik Long: Can get you guys just pop up the first one.
Erik Long: Campaigns that you guys are popular or the company's
Erik Long: Paying Google
Richelle Direny: That's a good way to look at it. And that means that they will be shown not all a lot of money to pay Google
Richelle Direny: Earth.
Richelle Direny: Um, but yeah, I think I you know when I don't even know if this is maybe one of the only ones, but I mean to call across the state. I think
Richelle Direny: One of the only company that goes across the state with this.
Erik Long: I thought that was
Erik Long: Surprising that like it was like we can prescribe Suboxone from California, and you live in, like, like it's in, like, what is it like seven states or eight states.
Richelle Direny: No Gary in a whole lot more states.
Richelle Direny: I think the goal is to for the whole United, I want to say that's the goal is to be across the whole United States. But no, there isn't a whole lot more than seven state.
Erik Long: Which state are you in
Richelle Direny: I'm in Florida.
Richelle Direny: Oh, they're going
Erik Long: To Jameson.
Richelle Direny: She's in Florida as well. The thing is, we're in Florida, but we are so we get licensed in another state.
Richelle Direny: Yeah program itself. It's coming to Florida. I don't think it's fully in Florida is yet so you can be in you know another state.
Richelle Direny: So let's say if you move to your an Ohio. But if you decide to move to Tennessee, you can still be a part of the program and I could still be your therapist and Dr. Davis and it's going to be your doctor.
Erik Long: Oh, sweet.
Richelle Direny: Because I were in. We're licensed in that state if you decided to go to
Richelle Direny: Michigan like I'm in Michigan, but, um, he would get another doctor so
Richelle Direny: It's just one career, you understand. I'm saying so. And I think Dr. Davis and isn't a whole lot of states so you, you just but if you came to Florida. You may not be able to be a part of the program. Even though I'm like I'm licensed in Florida, because I'm in Florida.
Richelle Direny: But the program is mine in Florida.
Erik Long: And they don't
Richelle Direny: Know, and I even though so like I'm in Florida. Dr. James is in Florida. But then the question is, is bright heart in Florida.
Richelle Direny: Or they approved to be able to provide the service in Florida. So you may not necessarily be able to continue to be a part of our heart in Florida. I think that's how it works. So until they're in Florida. So they're they're in a number of states.
Richelle Direny: That you have to because everything has to be based on the state laws, especially with medicine or Tele health, you know, if you have to be your government under each state law. So once
Richelle Direny: It's your granted. Then you come into that state. And so if you're in the state, then you can continue with the program.
Richelle Direny: And that's
Richelle Direny: A nice thing since accessibility. Yeah, I mean,
Richelle Direny: Yeah, and and and that you're not necessarily um
Richelle Direny: You know,
Richelle Direny: So if you, you know that concept if you slip you slide. Like, it's not like that. If you slip. It's just like, All right, come on. Let's talk about it. Like what happened. It's not like you know some programs where you slip. You're out, you're done.
Erik Long: It's not
Richelle Direny: You know, we definitely work with you because if you slip, there must be something going on and let's talk about it.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, that's how the program is. So, but, you know, glad you're here for your sake. And of course, you know, you know, for the health but so let's talk about
Richelle Direny: When. How old were you when you got started. Like, what is your drug of choice. And what was the circumstances around it.
Erik Long: All right. Um, so
Erik Long: The first time I ever really the first time I ever like got high or felt like a euphoria was kind of I got
Erik Long: I really, really bad separation anxiety and it was like making me not be able to like go to like summer camps with my friends and stuff because I couldn't spend the night away from my parents. So some genius doctor
Erik Long: Prescribed with family history of
Erik Long: Substance dependency, knowing that prescribed me Xanax
Erik Long: And at 14 years old. And the first time I think Xanax, I was like, Wow, this is amazing. I don't have any anxiety anymore. And I feel like I'm floating on a cloud and then
Erik Long: I had one friend that he had moved out of state, but he came back and that was when I was like 16 years old. And when he came back to the state like when he abandoned the other state he started smoking a lot of weed and drinking a lot. So he came back and just got me on this.
Erik Long: Smoking weed and drinking and then
Erik Long: So I'd say like 16 is when I first started using like illegal substances.
Erik Long: Um,
Erik Long: My, my drug of choice.
Erik Long: Would be, it's like tied between
Erik Long: Like opiates and Benz's
Erik Long: So,
Richelle Direny: Just downers. Okay. Oh, hi. And so I'm at
Richelle Direny: 14 when you got that first. Hi.
Richelle Direny: I'm for anxiety now was. Did your parents consent to this. Don't they have to consent to it.
Erik Long: Yeah, my. Yeah. My dad was kind of against it, but my mom. My mom has a whole slew of mental health issues arm. She's had to go to rehab.
Erik Long: Twice within the past three years she's attempted suicide twice within the past three years, like she at that point. She was prescribed like three milligrams of Xanax and day. So it was like, if he's if it was more. It was prescribed to me, not as like
Erik Long: I don't know what the term for it. Is it wasn't prescribed to me like to be taken like
Erik Long: Once a day or anything like that. It was prescribed like
Richelle Direny: Every meeting.
Erik Long: Yeah, but, but, like, like rarely as needed. Like I just got like a really small prescription and then like when I went to summer camp.
Erik Long: I gave the people who worked at the summer camp my prescription and they gave me like point five milligrams each night before I went to bed. So I could go to sleep without like freaking out about being with my parents.
Richelle Direny: But that wasn't as needed. That was like every day you were getting every day.
Erik Long: No, I wasn't getting it every day.
Richelle Direny: No, you're saying when you went for cam. They started giving it to you every night.
Erik Long: Yeah, but just a little bit, but nobody was as me like I was like, I'd start freaking out every night and then they'd give me my saying next dose and then I've calmed down. So, I mean, that kind of helped build up this like thing in my head. Like if you're freaking out about something.
Erik Long: You could take take a substance and you'll be fine.
Richelle Direny: Um, and, but back then it wasn't you mean well, I would wonder, did you conceptualize it as a substance or you just kind of looked at it, it became a trainer behavior.
Richelle Direny: That if I started slipping out they'll give me something I'll calm down. Then if I flipped on again. They'll give me something. And I'll calm down. But did you know what as it did you conceptualize it as I take a substance or it was like, I even given a pill and I'll come down.
Erik Long: Yeah, I think it was my second is just like
Erik Long: Yeah, at that time, it was that, but then after summer camp and stuff that I didn't continue the Xanax prescription at some point when I was like, so at 16 when the weed and alcohol you started
Erik Long: I started my mom had just pills like she went to two different doctors and was getting Xanax prescriptions for both from both of them.
Erik Long: And there were just pills filled with Xanax all like all over her room in the house and I would just do as many frickin Xanax, as I wanted and take them like every night, a bunch of them.
Erik Long: For a long, long time.
Richelle Direny: Because they're
Richelle Direny: Used to get used to. And kind of like the feeling that you got with the kind of relaxed.
Richelle Direny: That you got in, you kind of wanted to get experienced that all the time.
Erik Long: Yeah, but also I was in third or fourth grade, I was put on
Erik Long: Like stimulants, because for ADHD.
Directory.
Erik Long: Yeah. Vive it's
Erik Long: My fan and I took Ritalin for a while. I took my vans. For a while I to
Erik Long: What's the really popular one.
Erik Long: That people will be used.
Erik Long: I forget what it's called, whatever, just a bunch of different stimulants and those had like a really harsh side effect on me of like anxiety and like feeling pent up. So then, like the end of the day, I would do that Xanax and it was like calm me down.
Richelle Direny: Isn't Klonopin and one of them are no
Erik Long: No Klonopin to benzodiazepine
Richelle Direny: Okay, but, um, but I know that that can be that can be an addictive because people have used that as well.
Erik Long: Yeah yeah lenses i one of my drugs of choice. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: But so
Richelle Direny: So as a teenager being introduced to this by a doctor for anxiety and your, your, your parents approve of it, they kind of okayed it
Richelle Direny: And it sound like given that your mom had her
Richelle Direny: You know history of mental illness and was on medication and she wasn't completely opposed to you taking any kind of medic medication for anything. She wasn't opposed to that.
Erik Long: No, she she still thinks that I mean she is sober nowadays, as in she like
Erik Long: She's not on any
Erik Long: Like she she was a really bad alcoholic for a while. So she's sober from that. But she's still on like 60 different prescriptions from doctors that include several controlled substances.
Erik Long: So like my, my mom kind of put the ideology into my head of like
Erik Long: If you're not feeling some way. Just take a pill and it will fix it.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: So yeah, so it comes down to.
Richelle Direny: Because it's a
Richelle Direny: I want to say learned, but pretty much it. Because she's used to it, she's been doing this for a while because of her diagnosis and her
Richelle Direny: addictive behaviors for you. It wasn't far fetched that if it was that you are now experiencing certain things or you had any kind of underlying mental illnesses or the doctors were diagnosed with any of it. It wasn't anything for her to be okay with you, taking it so
Richelle Direny: You it. So when eat. So when you tipped over into the addiction part was it that
Richelle Direny: She became she opposed it or did she someone become enabling of it after a while.
Erik Long: Um, when I tipped over into like the full blown addiction part of it like so she's diagnosed borderline personality disorder and she's very codependent
Erik Long: She
Erik Long: Kinda like
Erik Long: Like felons like the super bad depression but ramped up her like even doubled her Xanax usage. At that point, and then was like berating me to my other fam about me to my other family members, even though she was like
Erik Long: On like a super high amount and Xanax and just laying in bed all day for two years. That was before I went to rehab was a really bad time my life and for my family.
Richelle Direny: And so now it says the age of 14 up until present day.
Richelle Direny: Or I shouldn't say present day prior to you. Come, becoming a part of bright heart. Have you ever been in any
Richelle Direny: treatment programs.
Erik Long: Impatient yeah I'd gone to rehab four times.
Richelle Direny: Four times now where they like just detox programs or 30 day programs.
Erik Long: I've been to
Erik Long: Three detoxes
Erik Long: For 30 day programs.
Erik Long: For
Erik Long: I O P 30 day programs that were connected to the 30 day inpatient programs.
Richelle Direny: So after you came into it. So you went from impatient to
Richelle Direny: I. O. P.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, okay. Um, now
Richelle Direny: When was your most recent admission or your last I should say admission to the 30 day
Erik Long: Anything.
Erik Long: Probably a year and a half ago. So that would be
Richelle Direny: 2018 so
Erik Long: Yeah yeah like August 2018
Erik Long: Okay, that's what it was.
Richelle Direny: Okay. And, um, and what about your last detox. So it was the inpatient like the last 30 days in
Richelle Direny: treatment program for like your detox program.
Erik Long: That was a 30 day in patient and I didn't have to go to detox and for that one because I wasn't abusing anything that they said it was medically required to detox from
Richelle Direny: Ok and now
Richelle Direny: And I know impatient, you get the doctor psychiatrists counselor and you're seeing them for the most part, every day or every three
Richelle Direny: Days or two days or what have you, outside of the program. Have you were you did you follow up like going to therapy.
Erik Long: In what sense like once I wanted di O P or after I left, I op and was yeah I'm one of the times I did and I actually
Erik Long: But I was on Suboxone from this one place and I was going to a meetings twice a week, I was at a halfway house and I made it a little bit over a year sober or in a they consider if you're on Suboxone you're not sober. But if it's
Erik Long: If it's the FDA says it's okay. Then I'll call it sober. So happier than I am, when I'm using opiates and Benz's and stuff.
Richelle Direny: You say you're a lot happier.
Erik Long: Yeah, we got to feel. I will. I just feel a lot more stable.
Mm hmm.
Richelle Direny: Not but with the Suboxone your isn't a combination of the bendel's not good.
Erik Long: Yeah, no, you can't. You're not supposed to take them. I don't take vengeance.
Erik Long: Okay, okay. Yeah, I can.
Erik Long: Like, that's one of my drugs of choice like yeah but yeah if you if you take Suboxone with
Erik Long: Ben's owes
Erik Long: A can
Erik Long: I don't know, it can slow down your heart rate and like
Erik Long: Oh, you can overdose.
Uh huh.
Richelle Direny: Um, now so
Richelle Direny: You went into a year and a half ago you went into the treatment program now um
Richelle Direny: But you, you were you are answering the question to ask to outside of after you weren't completely discharged from the program on your own. You said you were not seeing continuously a therapist or psychiatrist, you were not
Erik Long: No, I was
Erik Long: I was once a week, I was seeing a therapist and doing everything I needed to do and then
Erik Long: About a year into it. I kind of like mentally like just after getting a year sober, I kind of like, like, as they say in like a, like I mentally relapsed before I physically relapsed but I just stopped getting out of bed and making my bed every morning I stopped praying every night. I stopped.
Erik Long: You know, doing all the things that helped me keep my sobriety and that eventually led to me using and then the first time I used. I actually overdosed. And that's the first time I've ever overdosed and
Erik Long: When like went to the hospital. They had to give me like four shots and arcane
Erik Long: And then after that that was a big wake up call. I moved back up here with my parents and I haven't used anything set or like started using
Erik Long: Percocet.
Erik Long: That was super afraid of doing heroin ever then because that's what made me overdose. So it was easy.
You did heroin.
Erik Long: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Okay, and with the now. How long were you clean and sober before you had relapsed
Erik Long: Okay, so I did that the final night the final 30 day impatient, then a 30 day I op. Then I stay, including that I stayed sober for a whole year.
Erik Long: And then like a couple weeks after I got my one year chip from a I
Erik Long: Did heroin. Does that answer your question.
Richelle Direny: So, so one year sober, then you said that you started kind of like what the mental relax.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, actual relapse and what was going on at that time when you like when you that mental relaxed started happening for you to kind of fall behind on the things that maintained your sobriety.
Erik Long: I still
Erik Long: I don't know, I just kind of I stopped. I, for some reason, I just stopped putting like the effort or like
Erik Long: I just got
Erik Long: For you. There's a word they use a lot for it, but I got like lazy.
Erik Long: complacent. Complacent yes i got complacent and basically was like, oh, I have this. I don't need to pray to God. I can make my own schedule. I can do whatever I want. And I'll stay sober and know that did not work out.
Richelle Direny: You know, so you so I guess at that point life said
Richelle Direny: You're not as strong as your mind is telling you you are
Erik Long: Yeah, my, my
Erik Long: Yeah, it's kind of like my disease, as I like to say, kind of, it's like delusional. Like, it tells me that I can
Erik Long: Be sober without doing anything to be sober.
Erik Long: And then I use or. It says, oh, like the classic, you can just use once and you'll be fine. Those kinds of things I tell myself and then never ends up being true.
Richelle Direny: Um,
Richelle Direny: A lot of it is a decent predisposition because you grew up kind of being around an exposed to it. So it's a lot more sort of a predisposition. This kind of like
Richelle Direny: If I
Richelle Direny: What's normal in my house may not be normal in your house, not to say that you will look at it says that's not normal, but it's normal for me because that's all I know. I know nothing else.
Richelle Direny: I'm missing something else. So my normal your definition of normal your definition of normal are two different things. It's all because of the exposure.
Richelle Direny: It's kind of like I grew up in a certain country. So I have an accent you grew up in a different country. So you have a different accent. But hey, if I grew up in your country.
Richelle Direny: Though my parents speak a different have a different accent, it's because that's not where I grew up. That's not what I was exposed to. That's not what I saw all day every day.
So,
Erik Long: I had a very eye opening experience this kind of related to that. When I was in my final rehab, which was the best rehab that I went to, which is down in Florida that I highly recommend. It's called immersion.
Erik Long: They
Erik Long: They had this song family weekend where like my family members came down and we did like intensive group therapy, but in a group with other families with their addict kid there as well. And like for for only for my family. He had us do like a role playing thing or he had me like
Erik Long: Take the whole ROOM AND MAKE IT INTO LIKE MY HOUSE AND PUT MY DAD, WHERE HE WOULD BE MY MOM OR SHE WOULD BE IN what she would be doing and thinking and all what my sisters will be doing and thinking and like, as I was saying that I realized like,
Erik Long: How messed up.
Erik Long: Like a lot of the shift in my household was as I grew up and in my entire life. I like been blaming myself or how messed up my family was but
Erik Long: Really there was a lot riding on the. So my parents have have finally decided to get a divorce, but it was like grinding down for like
Erik Long: The entire time I've been alive, like slowly and my mom struggles with mental health and my dad just doesn't talk about emotion at all. So there was no way for me to vent or to do anything.
Erik Long: So I don't know.
Richelle Direny: Yeah. So basically, that was so you're in your house that was your normal, but the only way you are able to recognize it, because you were removed from it. Now I'm able to look at my life through this looking glass and
Richelle Direny: That this is just very different. You recognize I hold on. That's not cool, like all of this that's going on that's not that's not normal.
Richelle Direny: And so, like you said, by doing the role play it wasn't like you said, it becomes an eye opener because um
Richelle Direny: Because now you're seeing life very different. You're now standing on the outside and watching a movie over your life and comparing it to other things that you've seen now that you're removed from it and you're like,
Erik Long: No.
Richelle Direny: You know and like you said the dynamic between your parents, it is I'm
Richelle Direny: I'm it's that your, your idea of, um, well, my parents like they're together. And so growing up. That's like it's cool, because my parents are together. So I'm normal. But then that's somewhat of a very dysfunctional relationship.
Richelle Direny: But you don't like when you're in it.
Richelle Direny: You feel it. What you really truly recognize it after you come
Richelle Direny: Out of it completely. So I'm definitely an eye opener. But, um,
Richelle Direny: The other thing that now with all of this with your, you know, addiction. I'm just kind of this journey that you've been on
Richelle Direny: Have you developed or had any kind of underlining medical issues.
Erik Long: As in, what, like physical medical issues.
Erik Long: No.
Richelle Direny: Okay you finished your completed high school
Richelle Direny: Yeah. And did you go to college.
Erik Long: Um, tried twice, but both of those times were during active addiction. So that didn't work out.
Richelle Direny: No one, no plan to work out there. So, um, what about um
Richelle Direny: Do you have any
Richelle Direny: Legal pending legal issues. Have you ever been.
Erik Long: I have. I actually just fun my lawyers office was closed for code for a little bit, but it just opened a couple days ago and I got in my seal record form because I have
Erik Long: One.
Erik Long: Misdemeanor that keeps showing up whenever I apply for jobs and screwing me over. It's from five years ago when I stole beer from a convenience store because I was high on Xanax
Richelle Direny: Okay. And how long has over
Erik Long: Five years ago.
Richelle Direny: Okay, okay.
Erik Long: And it's still haunting me
Richelle Direny: What. Well, isn't that what is that a misdemeanor or felony.
Erik Long: It's a misdemeanor.
Erik Long: Well, don't try to give me the felony.
Erik Long: Because I've done it a bunch of times. And they only caught me that one time is like when I
Erik Long: It's common with like Xanax and makes people makes people like arsonists.
Erik Long: Like they want to commit larceny. They want to steal stuff so that happens to me when I'm on Xanax, it just makes me make really bad decisions.
Mm hmm.
Richelle Direny: Um, and that's very interesting that when you're on Xanax, you want to, I guess it's the high. It's the high that you're you're undergoing you feel like is it that you have this
Erik Long: Well, it's very similar to alcohol and
Erik Long: It just like releases all inhibition
Erik Long: Gotcha gets it's just like being blackout drunk but like you are blacked out but your motor skills are quite aren't as effective.
Erik Long: As offense.
Erik Long: And you can act a little bit more normal but like your decision making faculties are just gone.
Richelle Direny: Like you said, it's it's somewhat
Richelle Direny: I guess, like you said, a form like a host nation where you're thinking that you can do something or this is your new reality, but it's not because your, your cognitive functions are kind of alternating or not, you know,
Richelle Direny: It happens to be on. Um, now
Richelle Direny: I know you. I know you shared about like your mom's mental health. Now for you. The only thing that you that I guess you were diagnosed with even at the onset was anxiety, but outside of that were you diagnosed with anything else.
Richelle Direny: depression. Depression so
Richelle Direny: Basically you're you're seeing
Richelle Direny: A psychiatrist for the ongoing treatment of anxiety and depression.
Erik Long: Yes, and I have a psychiatrist right now to
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: We
Erik Long: All I'm taking is I need to talk to Dr. Davidson about this, but I haven't had a one on one with her to talk about with but from that psychiatrist all that she prescribes me as Wellbutrin. And she said, there's no negative
Erik Long: Interactions between Suboxone will be a
Richelle Direny: Doctor. Okay, yeah, you could definitely talk to her, but it just seems funny that you were being treated for anxiety when you clearly said
Richelle Direny: That arm. It was your anxiety, which naturally will feel because you're in a new environment in comparison to are you really an anxious person or was it that you didn't adapt to new environments or a new situation as readily as someone else does.
Erik Long: Yeah, and that's actually a
Erik Long: Like a symptom of ADHD, which I think I've got like some people grow out of their ADHD. I think I have. I don't have the hyperactivity anymore and I don't have a lot of the other symptoms but like change like an aversion to change. That's a symptom of ADHD, like you don't like.
Richelle Direny: I felt that the jury.
Environments.
Erik Long: Style that
Richelle Direny: Because when you really think about it, what can a really that hyper what can really does focus. And then when you even think about like this. So, like, as you were talking like I know one of the things with my my my oldest son. He doesn't adapt to um
Richelle Direny: He doesn't take changes really well, but I know that, like, we know that we know that putting him in a new environment.
Richelle Direny: Is that by himself is just on cool when he was younger. It was worse but
Richelle Direny: You know, as he got older, as long as someone familiar was with him. He was okay he's okay with it. Um, but
Richelle Direny: You knew that you had to slowly introducing to you have to have that conversation with him. You got to prepare him for it. So it's a slow introduction
Erik Long: I never got any of that.
Erik Long: Yeah, I got thrown in there every
Richelle Direny: Day.
Richelle Direny: But then it's a really anxiety or you just, you don't just throw somebody into a new situation, but it's being able to identify that. So like I i tend to find
Richelle Direny: That for him. I can't just throw him in a new situation. So then I never put him in for allowed him to go with people who doesn't recognize that. So you we slowly introduce them.
Richelle Direny: Or one of us will be there with him and then we will slowly back away and we will ask him. Is it okay if we walk away now.
Richelle Direny: And he'll say, okay, but then it was that reassurance that I'm right here. If you need me or you can call me if you need me. But it's kind of like that slow introduction. So then
Richelle Direny: Is it, do you, how do you help someone with that. It's like you slowly do it, then there is the
Richelle Direny: Like you would say the attention. The but then my theory is your focus on what you want to focus on because like I see that with him. It's like
Richelle Direny: He focuses on the things he wants to focus on. Um, but then the things that he's not really focused on the things that are really not very interesting to him. So do you put that diagnosis of
Richelle Direny: Attention deficit or even the hyperactivity as a boy they're typically they make your heart skip a beat all day long.
Richelle Direny: All day long, you're like, I'm about to go to the hospital. They want to break something. They're about to kill themselves.
Richelle Direny: Simply because their fear factor is just completely different where they're not as cautious or aware of the dangers around them. But that's just the
Richelle Direny: Boys and girls as they get older, they become a little calmer, but just overall they're different. So that's why I say that the jury's out when it comes down to this term of a DD or ADHD. Now granted, there are people who legitimately
Richelle Direny: Have this diagnosis that no matter what they are literally very hyper and throughout their lives. They're like that but unfair. You know, sometimes you have to stop and you have to kind of take into consideration what the situation is. But again, I think in your situation.
Richelle Direny: Your, your predisposition. It was almost like
Richelle Direny: Like you said, with your mom with her own mental health.
Richelle Direny: Diagnosis and her struggles with mental health and your father and not really having that conversation or what have you, or being in tuned or aware that maybe you shouldn't just take him and throw them out into the deep blue sea and then tell him learn how to swim anybody going to
Richelle Direny: Change it. So that's just kind of the concept so that that's just my spiel on when I say the jury's out when it comes to that. But, um, but then because of not taking that interest to kind of see
Richelle Direny: What your stressors are to some degree. Now,
Richelle Direny: The added thing was that you became addicted to this medication that was given to you because what was taught to you is that if I get anxious I can take this and this is how I'm going to feel
Erik Long: Yeah, like with what you're saying I'm a big believer in like therapy or like a therapeutic approach versus
Erik Long: Drugs.
Erik Long: Especially for kids because they're still like learning the way the world works like they're much more they take
Erik Long: Even if they don't directly admit it. They take advice that you give them a lot more readily
Erik Long: Than older people.
Richelle Direny: Exactly how many times are you going to tell the kids sit out. So now, don't move. Don't do this. But that's just kids there. But that's all they're going to do all day.
Richelle Direny: Monday. I'll have patience. I'm gonna deal with it. So how about you just go drink this pill. Now, you won't. Calm down. So then eventually become addicted to this, but again not to dismiss that there are people who have legitimate issues and they need a system.
Richelle Direny: You know, medication assisted type of therapy to help them while teaching home. But again, everybody is different, but based on what I heard you say
Richelle Direny: It seemed like well as you were saying it. I thought of my son.
Richelle Direny: Like you cannot like the boy would flip out if you put them in a new situation like legit flip out like something wrong with you, buddy. You kind of need. Calm down. But then I learned over time. It was just a new situation. He just did not adapt very well. So as we
Richelle Direny: Work and like you said, taking that therapeutic approach, and working with him for him to be comfortable. And so now he's perfectly fine now.
Richelle Direny: Take on new situations. Okay. Um, but
Richelle Direny: For now, with you said that your sisters. Do you have one sister two sisters. How many sisters, you have
Erik Long: Three.
Richelle Direny: You're the only boy.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, you guys stand a chance. Eric
Erik Long: And I'm the black sheep. They're all straight A students never done a drug in there. My
Richelle Direny: Uh, but either way you're how much, how much are you the youngest the
Erik Long: second oldest
Richelle Direny: So older sister, who is the boss.
Erik Long: Because she feel like, yes.
Erik Long: Then you have three older sisters pretty timid
Erik Long: But she has a master's degree in social work, specializing in substance abuse because of me and my pants. She that inspired her to get that. So I go to her. A lot of times for advice on stuff. And we used to really not get along, but nowadays we get along really well.
Erik Long: And then I have my one younger sister who's in college. She's halfway through her freshman year.
Erik Long: And
Erik Long: We're very similar like both of us are pretty intelligent and
Erik Long: We can argue a lot but like we are you a lot because like it's something similar in us that for some weird reason we like like to argue like the the heat of the debate, just like straight
Erik Long: Up. Yeah. And we just go and but sometimes she just like I don't take it too personal levels and sometimes she just takes it to personal levels and just starts like
Erik Long: shooting down my personal characteristics. But sometimes we don't get along. But like recently we've been getting along very well.
Erik Long: I've been just trying to talk very openly with her about things.
Erik Long: And then my youngest sister is 17 years old and that is a whole nother deal
Erik Long: I mean she
Erik Long: She, she just like
Erik Long: Her like for me. My like default way of escape is using drugs right to get out. She it's like they call it like regression. She is 17 years old and will cry hysterically like a five year old about five times a day and she talks in not her real boys, but in a little girls voice.
Richelle Direny: She's the baby of the family.
Erik Long: She is the baby of the family.
Richelle Direny: Does everybody baby.
Erik Long: My mom babies or
Erik Long: Any my dad.
Erik Long: caters to whatever when she wants.
Richelle Direny: Codes because of our behavior. If I act like this and
Erik Long: Yeah, and she and it's weird, cuz she saw my mom finally moved out. But my little sister.
Erik Long: Why do you used to always my dad would sleep on the couch and my little sister would sleep in bed with my mom, up until she was 16
Erik Long: And then my dad once his bed and my little sister will go to bed in her room. She 17 years old and then an hour later, go and sleep in the same bed as my father.
Richelle Direny: Because she's because it's usually used to it and she get in. They allow it.
Erik Long: Yeah, and
Erik Long: And I'm told to not comment on anything.
Erik Long: My father
Richelle Direny: Why
Erik Long: Because he's he's horribly scared of conflict.
Erik Long: Is like a massive fear of conflict and but like throughout my two years of all my treatment and everything I've been through, you know, like calling people out. A lot of times is needed because people aren't going to change their behavior. No one's telling them what they're doing wrong.
Richelle Direny: True. That is very true.
Erik Long: But and
Erik Long: But I like when I do call her out. I tried to be doing as respectful of the manner as possible. Like, I'm very nice. I use nice language but like she she throws a tantrum. If you question any of our actions.
Erik Long: BIANCA. This isn't about her. It's about me so
Erik Long: We can this not talk about that.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, I'm
Richelle Direny: For your
Richelle Direny: Now you gave, kind of, you told me a little bit about all three of your siblings. Now, does any of them have, um,
Richelle Direny: Any history of mental on are diagnosed with any type of mental illness.
Erik Long: My older one has like really, really, really severe anxiety and panic attacks by like severe anxiety.
Richelle Direny: This is your
Richelle Direny: Master's degree in social work.
Erik Long: Yeah, yeah. She has severe anxiety.
Erik Long: But like she goes to therapy and she gets help with it and it seems to be getting better like as a cage. She, she was like the most anxious
Erik Long: person I've ever seen my whole life, and then
Erik Long: My younger sister has the regression thing which I don't know if you'd call that mental health illness or just
Erik Long: You badly learned behavior. And then my middle sister has like manic depressive disorder like bipolar.
Richelle Direny: So they were diagnosed with these
Richelle Direny: Yeah, don't. But you just say your sister just regressed with a lot, but you're not
Erik Long: Yeah, she's not diagnosed that
Richelle Direny: Because really solid regression because regression. Yeah. That doesn't really sound like that false based on how you're describing, it sounds like it's a word. It's kind of if I act like this mom and dad will get into it.
Erik Long: Yeah, well, I said it's like regression like behavior like
Like
Erik Long: You, she just like
Erik Long: Turns on the I'm a baby card and then all poor you here. Let me go get you what you want because you will eat what I cooked for everyone else on that kind of thing, but
Richelle Direny: Baby of the family type of thing, but
Richelle Direny: Now, with your now within that same family contacts arm.
Richelle Direny: Has
Richelle Direny: Let me start off with you have you have any we you said that there was the overdose. But after the relapse. But have you personally attempted suicide or had any kind of self injurious behavior.
Richelle Direny: Any disorders, anything like that.
Richelle Direny: Now has that been anything in your family where anyone has attempted suicide or
Erik Long: Yes, my mother has twice.
Richelle Direny: Twice. Okay, and
Richelle Direny: Have you ever been hospitalized in other whether it's voluntary or involuntary
Erik Long: Well, I was hospitalized. When I overdosed. But
Richelle Direny: Medical meaning voluntary meaning like in a psychiatric unit.
Erik Long: Oh, no.
Richelle Direny: No, because I mean because some places I've seen people who have had an overdose and then they get transferred
Erik Long: They get no no no.
Erik Long: That's not I overdosed in South Florida and that's like the one of the overdose capitals of the country. So they just like I overdosed and I was out of the hospital within an hour and 10 minutes
Richelle Direny: In America it. Where's the isn't that in West Palm
Erik Long: Yeah, very good.
Erik Long: It's a really good treatment center.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, that's yeah that sounds like I've heard
Erik Long: One of my really good friends works at
Erik Long: He's just attack there, but I also, I know a lot of the people there because they were my like sobriety group that supported me through my years sober.
Erik Long: So I know a lot of people that were there really good people and they're much more. I mean, there are a lot more big book oriented and like 12 step oriented, but they're also a lot more about like
Erik Long: Finding a higher power and that kind of thing, then a lot of other places that don't want to touch that because that's too much.
Erik Long: touchy feely to go into like
Erik Long: Typing and grab people's religion.
Erik Long: Yeah, they're, they're much more spiritual about it. So yeah.
Richelle Direny: I mean, but a
Richelle Direny: Big Buck, a lot of that that's where that comes from.
Erik Long: Yeah, like they're also
Erik Long: Very it's very professional. The facilities are really nice. So please
Richelle Direny: Are these facilities itself or not really, really nice.
Erik Long: Oh, the first one I went to town. They're horrible.
Erik Long: They're not open
Erik Long: They're not an open anymore. What's
Erik Long: Called recovery road.
Richelle Direny: There's a few of them here in Florida, but um. Now, you said that your mom is the only one that attempted suicide. Now, in terms of your sisters or anything like that. They don't have any history.
Richelle Direny: In terms of
Richelle Direny: Self Harm like cutting or anything like that.
Erik Long: No, no.
Richelle Direny: And for your
Richelle Direny: History of substance abuse from a family perspective.
Richelle Direny: Like your dad or your mom. Do they have a history.
Erik Long: Both my dad and mom are recovering alcoholics.
Erik Long: My grandfather
Erik Long: Is an alcoholic.
Erik Long: I mean, he's, he's a high functioning alcoholic he drinks beer from noon to nine every day.
Richelle Direny: Are they both still alive. Well, your dad, your grandparents.
Erik Long: My grandfather is still alive. He's at he smoked two packs of cigarettes a day. I don't know how he's still alive, but I managers keeps are taken.
Erik Long: And what
Erik Long: He's heavily yeah he trains heavily and smoked two packs of cigarettes a day.
Erik Long: Was 80 years old.
Richelle Direny: And your. What about your grandmother grand mother on both sides.
Erik Long: Okay, so my grandmother on my mom's side also.
Erik Long: Had borderline personality disorder and had suicide attempts, just like my mom.
Erik Long: And then my grandfather on my mom's side.
Erik Long: Had diagnosed narcissistic personality disorder.
Erik Long: So we have my mom's side of the family, the mental health things really messed up. And then all my dad side of the family is just kind of like the substance abuse stuff.
Richelle Direny: Um,
Richelle Direny: And your sister. I know you said you're, you said none of your sisters have any history of any kind of substance use, they don't do anything. They just
Yeah.
Erik Long: Yeah, it's just me.
Richelle Direny: Okay, um,
Erik Long: I scared them straight
Richelle Direny: Well, how much older. Are you well between you and your sister.
Erik Long: Your life so I'm
Erik Long: My older sister is 25 and she's married, she married one of my high school friends, but he was older than me and he's hurting each
Erik Long: And he's an awesome guy. So they're cool and
Erik Long: But then there's an age gap of four years between me and my younger sister, then there's an age gap of two years between her and my youngest sister.
Richelle Direny: So you're six years older than your last sister.
Erik Long: Then, my youngest yeah
Richelle Direny: And four years older than the one right after you
Richelle Direny: And all and all four of your same mom and dad.
Richelle Direny: Yeah. Gotcha. Yeah, no outside siblings.
Erik Long: No.
Richelle Direny: Okay, and so your parents are recently divorced
Erik Long: Well they recently. Finally, like got all the paperwork figured out that it's not been done in Korea.
Richelle Direny: Oh, and
Erik Long: Dad's finally gotten her do agree to it. She's been paying for it for like three years.
Richelle Direny: And you're you're
Richelle Direny: You're doing your dad have a closer relationship, or is he more supportive your mom.
Erik Long: Yeah, yeah. I tell my that everything is very supportive and he's given me more chances than most.
Erik Long: Parents would give their kids so
Erik Long: Very good.
Erik Long: Very great my relationship with my mom is
Erik Long: I can only take her in small doses for my own mental health.
Erik Long: Because being surrounded by her all the time. It just, I don't know it.
Erik Long: It just makes me sad and like that's not what I need right now so
Erik Long: I do, I do whatever I can to help her. I go over to her house and I take out our trash and clean and do stuff like that for her several times a week.
Richelle Direny: Been through a lot kind of pre disposed to a lot. You and your sisters from both sides of your family. So it's kind of like coming from. It's on.
Richelle Direny: It's kind of like if I was supposed to do a genome Graham i think that's that's the one I want a Chino frappuccino gram, kind of, it starts off with your grandparents.
Richelle Direny: And it goes down to your parents in kind of like, What's the dynamic with your grandparents that that came down to your parents that comes down to you and you
Richelle Direny: Will see how the trickling of like what I'm asking the mental illness, the substance abuse all kind of the predisposition, that kind of went from generation to generation. So it will be curious.
Richelle Direny: If to hear how your parents are very similar to your grandparents, it will be curious to know what your great grandparents would have been like, so it's going down. So at some point.
Richelle Direny: It's kind of with you and your siblings that says, I'm going to stop the cycle here and you know now. Does your sister and I say your sister is married if she have children.
Erik Long: Or not yet.
Richelle Direny: So it's kind of like when you know if any of you decide to have children, one day is kind of like how do we stop the cycle here.
Richelle Direny: We're work through our issues address them learn how better ways to cope with them being that more therapeutic
Richelle Direny: Or from a holistic standpoint. And so when you decide to have get married and have children. It's just being more mindful of, you know,
Richelle Direny: What you bring your children into if you, you know, you understand what I'm saying that
Richelle Direny: Even be mindful of the partner you choose in life, not to say
Richelle Direny: That, oh, if you have a history of addiction that, but then we are they if they have a history of addiction, where are they, in their sobriety. Are they on the same journey as you
Richelle Direny: Were you're trying to say, hey, let's learn and work through the issues that the issues that we have, have not learned
Erik Long: To help
Richelle Direny: Or to deal with, or to work through before we decide to come together and bring forth children because now I'm continuing the cycle. And I don't want to continue the cycle.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, so that will be very interesting. And a lot of it is education. I personally believe in
Richelle Direny: Yes, there is the substances, you can learn about
Richelle Direny: Just kind of how
Richelle Direny: These chemical dependencies is which whether, whether it's alcohol heroin, cocaine, whatever it is that you took having these chemical dependency.
Richelle Direny: That yes became an issue because you use it and you learn to become addicted to the effects that it gave you suppressed it stopped in major not feel it made you not deal with reality as it is.
Richelle Direny: More I kind of take that approach like
Richelle Direny: Let's work through where all of this started because even though we're all of it started.
Richelle Direny: You're still faced with situation and circumstances in current day in present day. And that's added to what you're still coping and dealing with in the past. And it sounds like for you just dealing with it within
Richelle Direny: The inside of your home, having grandparents and parents struggling with their own things probably even but not knowing necessarily how to deal with these emotions and feelings and
Richelle Direny: Which sometimes can be a taboo topic, like, especially as a guy, which to me you hurt and what you mean you're crying. What you mean well, hold up, but God gave me emotions to he gave me a tear ducts. Like I use them.
Richelle Direny: So, you know, but it's it's a learning how to work through a lot of that understanding what that means and understanding that I can't
Richelle Direny: I'm not feel I have to feel I have to guess through this. I have to learn how to get through this. I have to learn how to let these emotions, but overwhelming. I have to learn how to get through them and let them pass in a healthier way. Um, so, I think, you know,
Richelle Direny: Kind of the approach I like to take is let's talk about some of those issues.
Richelle Direny: Have even though mom and dad were in the home that feeling of abandonment a mom, not being nurturing loving, kind of what we created in our mind and what I look at as to what a mom should be
Richelle Direny: And her having her struggles with mental illness where that came from an understanding
Richelle Direny: From a holistic standpoint, maybe what she was struggling with and how she used alcohol and other things that she depended on to cope with her own her in her own pain in her own past
Richelle Direny: And not being in that place to be able to care for you and your siblings in the way that she needed to and show you that love and support the way she needed to. Same with your dad.
Richelle Direny: And and and and this is true because like you said your grandfather is 18 still drinking, smoking, so it goes to show you your grandfather never really learned how to cope and to deal with his issues. So then if your grandfather's your father's father right
Richelle Direny: Yeah, so then look at your grandfather, how was that your
Richelle Direny: Father was going to learn from it and you know
Richelle Direny: You know, just out of curiosity, one day, just, just to entertain yourself if you want to. There's this movie called
Richelle Direny: I can only imagine.
Richelle Direny: Just entertainment is maybe watch it and you kind of see exactly what I'm talking about, of how I mean, even though in that movie. There was a little bit more abuse and everything but the gist of it was what he went through one being like you
Richelle Direny: And living with a father. See how his father was like he went through this journey and eventually at one point, kind of
Richelle Direny: was granted the ability to see and understood what his father went through and why his father was the way he was
Erik Long: And it will
Richelle Direny: Learn how to forgive his father, because he then saw how what his father did to him was exactly what happened to his father, so he didn't know how to do anything different, but what he was taught
Richelle Direny: And so bear began the somewhat the forgiving and learning how to
Richelle Direny: Do things in a healthier way. I mean, in the movie. He didn't have an addiction issue. I don't remember him having an addiction issue, but it was just like the concept of how generational how we become what we were taught growing up.
Erik Long: And what our normal
Richelle Direny: Looks like so.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, but that would be interesting.
Erik Long: Bringing up the cycle thing like my mom.
Erik Long: Growing up would always tell us that like she had broken the cycle and she was important. She was diagnosed by doctors like
Erik Long: After her first suicide and she was diagnosed Borderline Personality Disorder be head.
Erik Long: And they like pink slip there and Chanda spend a few days in the like psych ward and everything, but
Erik Long: She like as a kid. She said she had broken the cycle.
Erik Long: But like I just think it's sad that like like her mom was like her worst nightmare because her mom and I could use turn stuff and then she kind of became the thing that she feared the most
Erik Long: Was becoming just like your mother.
Richelle Direny: Mm hmm. But then it's if we if you don't get for help and you're not open
Richelle Direny: To get the help and not be honest about what your struggle, your own struggles are you can't really truly break that cycle because then you end up falling in this track without recognizing
Richelle Direny: That you fall in the trap and you're repeating because it's like, how does an abuser. How does be abused become an abuser.
Richelle Direny: How was that
Erik Long: My mom never like physically abused any of us as kids, but she would and she never really abused me at all, but my younger sister, like the one that's four years younger than me.
Erik Long: She would threaten killing herself. My mom would killing herself to motivate my sister to do things.
Erik Long: Like
Richelle Direny: There's different types of abuse. I think a lot of abuse, we think of either it be sexual or physical
Erik Long: And yeah, it was definitely psychological
Richelle Direny: psychological abuse. There's a psychological and maybe your mom didn't recognize that it was psychological abuse. There's the psychological theories, the emotional there is the
Richelle Direny: There's just so many different types of abuse and those are the ones that are silent killers, because then the question is,
Richelle Direny: You're not it. I don't see the physical evidence, but the child is acting out
Richelle Direny: Maybe there's more than the physical aspect of it. The
Richelle Direny: How the child x
Richelle Direny: Tells me something is wrong. It's for me to sit there and dig deep. Where is this coming from, then you can identify the psychological
What exactly
Richelle Direny: So, um,
Richelle Direny: Let's see. I'm going to do.
Richelle Direny: You said that you're seeing a
Richelle Direny: Psychiatrist now right
Erik Long: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: And you see with that psychologists. I know some people they have a therapist that they're all UCS or a therapist as well. Currently with that psychiatrists
Erik Long: No, I do not see a therapist right now.
Richelle Direny: You work right.
Erik Long: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: During the day,
Erik Long: But, but it's only part time
Richelle Direny: Is during the day. Are there different time.
Erik Long: Let's
Erik Long: Spread out but normally during the day.
Erik Long: If you gave me any date that's like
Erik Long: Least a week and a half in the future. My boss is very flexible. I can tell.
Richelle Direny: Me do um
Richelle Direny: Let's do the 10th. Now, let's do this.
Erik Long: Perfect.
Erik Long: So we're going to be on the twice a month schedule.
Richelle Direny: And
Richelle Direny: I'm going to say, let's see how it goes. When I meet because the thing is my schedule gets they want us to make these appointments twice a month, but there's no way for me to do it reoccurring. Um, so I will just put it in.
Richelle Direny: Is it that when I meet with you on the 17th.
Erik Long: Okay, perfect.
Richelle Direny: Okay, we'll revisit that. Um, so I'll let them know to put you on the calendar. Dr. Jamison, I guess. I don't know how you you can follow up, but she says she'll do the failure scripts for you until Tuesday.
Erik Long: Okay design way when she said she'll send a bridge. So, should I just, I don't know. Should I just call my pharmacy tomorrow and see if the
Richelle Direny: Yes, yes.
Richelle Direny: Yes, your next full refill would be when you go to to backfire on Tuesday when you see her on Tuesday.
Erik Long: Okay, perfect.
Richelle Direny: All right, Eric. Have a good evening.
Erik Long: Yep, YouTube, Michelle, thank you.
Richelle Direny: You're welcome. Bye bye.